[Update] Readme (#39)
huggingface/huggingface-llama-recipes: README.md

* [Run Llama 3.1 8B in 4-bits with bitsandbytes](./4bit_bnb.ipynb)
* [Run Llama 3.1 8B in 8-bits with bitsandbytes](./8bit_bnb.ipynb)
* [Run Llama 3.1 8B with AWQ & fused ops](./awq.ipynb)

Working on the 🐘 big Llama 3.1 405B model:

* [Run Llama 3.1 405B FP8](./fp8-405B.ipynb)
* [Run Llama 3.1 405B quantized to INT4 with AWQ](./awq_generation.py)
* [Run Llama 3.1 405B quantized to INT4 with GPTQ](./gptq_generation.py)

## Model Fine Tuning:

It is often not enough to run inference on the model. 
Many times, you need to fine-tune the model on some 
custom dataset. Here are some scripts showing 
how to fine-tune the models.

Fine tune models on your custom dataset:
* [Fine tune Llama 3.2 Vision on a custom dataset](./Llama-Vision%20FT.ipynb)
* [Supervised Fine Tuning on Llama 3.2 Vision with TRL](./sft_vlm.py)
* [How to fine-tune Llama 3.1 8B on consumer GPU with PEFT and QLoRA with bitsandbytes](./peft_finetuning.py)
* [Execute a distributed fine tuning job for the Llama 3.1 405B model on a SLURM-managed computing cluster](./qlora_405B.slurm)

## Assisted Decoding Techniques

Do you want to use the smaller Llama 3.2 models to speedup text generation

> of bigger models? These notebooks showcase assisted decoding (speculative decoding), which gives you ~2x speedups for text generation on Llama 3.1 70B (with greedy decoding).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of bigger models? These notebooks showcase assisted decoding (speculative decoding), which gives you upto 2x speedups for text generation on Llama 3.1 70B (with greedy decoding).
```

nit: Assistive decoding is very sensitive to the nature, so if there's a topic that's out of distribution for draft model, it'd infact be slower than straight up `bf16`

Author: Do you think I should add this nit?

Reviewer: It's a minor nit, up-to you.

Author: I think I will add this nit in the assisted decoding notebook -- where people might be more familiar with why the nit was added in the first place.

* [Run assisted decoding with 🐘 Llama 3.1 70B and 🤏 Llama 3.2 3B](./assisted_decoding_70B_3B.ipynb)
* [Run assisted decoding with Llama 3.1 8B and Llama 3.2 1B](./assisted_decoding_8B_1B.ipynb)
* [Assisted Decoding with 405B model](./assisted_decoding.py)

## Performance Optimization

Let us optimize performace shall we?

* [Accelerate your inference using torch.compile](./torch_compile.py)
* [Accelerate your inference using torch.compile and 4-bit quantization with torchao](./torch_compile_with_torchao.ipynb)
* [Quantize KV Cache to lower memory requirements](./quantized_cache.py)
* [How to reuse prompts with dynamic caching](./prompt_reuse.py)

## API inference

> Are these models too large for you to run at home? Would you like to experiment with Llama 405B? Try out the following examples!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Are these models too large for you to run at home? Would you like to experiment with Llama 70B? Try out the following examples!
```

We don't have a deployment for 405B anymore.

Do you want to use the smaller Llama 3.2 models to speedup text generation
of bigger models? These notebooks showcase assisted decoding (speculative decoding), which gives you ~2x speedups for text generation on Llama 3.1 70B (with greedy decoding).

* [Run assisted decoding with 🐘 Llama 3.1 70B and 🤏 Llama 3.2 3B](./assisted_decoding_70B_3B.ipynb)
* [Run assisted decoding with Llama 3.1 8B and Llama 3.2 1B](./assisted_decoding_8B_1B.ipynb)
* [Assisted Decoding with 405B model](./assisted_decoding.py)

## Performance Optimization

Let us optimize performace shall we?

* [Accelerate your inference using torch.compile](./torch_compile.py)
* [Accelerate your inference using torch.compile and 4-bit quantization with torchao](./torch_compile_with_torchao.ipynb)
* Execute some Llama-generated Python code
* Use tools with Llama!
* [Quantize KV Cache to lower memory requirements](./quantized_cache.py)
* [How to reuse prompts with dynamic caching](./prompt_reuse.py)

## API inference

Are these models too large for you to run at home? Would you like to experiment with Llama 405B? Try out the following examples!

* [Use the Inference API for PRO users](./inference-api.ipynb)

> * Use a dedicated Inference Endpoint

Reviewer: We can actually keep this and route people to the Inference Endpoints catalog: https://ui.endpoints.huggingface.co/catalog

Author: Interesting -- while @osanseviero thought it would be better to remove this totally, and ask for contribution from the community.

WDYT?

Author: I would like it to be a community contribution -- that might be someone's first PR (that always excited me)

🤗🦙Welcome! This repository contains *minimal* recipes to get started quickly
with **Llama 3.x** models, including **Llama 3.1** and **Llama 3.2**.

* To get an overview of Llama 3.1, please visit [Hugging Face announcement blog post (3.1)](https://huggingface.co/blog/llama31).
* To get an overview of Llama 3.2, please visit [Hugging Face announcement blog post (3.2)](https://huggingface.co/blog/llama32).
* For more advanced end-to-end use cases with open ML, please visit the [Open Source AI Cookbook](https://huggingface.co/learn/cookbook/index).

This repository is WIP so that you might see considerable changes in the coming days.

> [!NOTE]
> To use Llama 3.x, you need to accept the license and request permission
to access the models. Please visit [the Hugging Face repos](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama)
and submit your request. You only need to do this once per collection; you'll get access to
all the repos in the collection if your request is approved.

## Getting Started

The easiest way to quickly run a Llama 🦙 on your machine would be with the
🤗 `transformers` repository. Make sure you have the latest release installed.

```shell
$ pip install -U transformers
```

> ### Generate text with a base model

Reviewer 2: I think most end-users will just want to try out the instruct model. WDYT of just showcasing that one in the getting started?

Author: Makes sense to me. Will remove the base model from the example.

Reviewer: Same yes!

that up!

```python
import torch
from transformers import pipeline

device = "cuda" if torch.cuda.is_available() else "cpu"

llama_31 = "meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct" # <-- llama 3.1
llama_32 = "meta-llama/Llama-3.2-3B-Instruct" # <-- llama 3.2

prompt = [
    {"role": "system", "content": "You are a helpful assistant, that responds as a pirate."},
    {"role": "user", "content": "What's Deep Learning?"},
]

generator = pipeline(model=llama_32, device=device, torch_dtype=torch.bfloat16)
generation = generator(
    prompt,
    do_sample=False,
    temperature=1.0,
    top_p=1,
    max_new_tokens=50
)

print(f"Generation: {generation[0]['generated_text']}")

# Generation:
# [
#   {'role': 'system', 'content': 'You are a helpful assistant, that responds as a pirate.'},
#   {'role': 'user', 'content': "What's Deep Learning?"},
#   {'role': 'assistant', 'content': "Yer lookin' fer a treasure trove o'
#             knowledge on Deep Learnin', eh? Alright then, listen close and
#             I'll tell ye about it.\n\nDeep Learnin' be a type o' machine
#             learnin' that uses neural networks"}
# ]
```

## Local Inference

> Would you like to run inference of the Llama 3.1 models locally?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Would you like to run inference of the Llama models locally?
```

So do we! The memory requirements depend on the model size and the
precision of the weights. Here's a table showing the approximate
memory needed for different configurations:

### Llama 3.1

> | Model Size | Llama Variant | FP16 | FP8 | INT4(AWQ/GPTQ/bnb) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Model Size | Llama Variant | BF16/FP16 | FP8 | INT4(AWQ/GPTQ/bnb) |
```

| :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: |
| 1B | 3.2 | 2.5 GB | 1.25GB | 0.75GB |
| 3B | 3.2 |6.5 GB | 3.2GB | 1.75GB |
| 8B | 3.1 |16 GB | 8GB | 4GB |
| 70B | 3.1 | 140 GB | 70GB | 35GB |
|405B | 3.1 |810 GB | 405GB | 204GB |

> | Model Size | BF16/FP16 | FP8 | INT4 |
> | :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: |
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

# Hugging Face Llama Recipes

![thumbnail for repository](./assets/hf-llama-recepies.png)

🤗🦙Welcome! This repository contains *minimal* recipes to get started quickly
with **Llama 3.x** models, including **Llama 3.1** and **Llama 3.2**.

* To get an overview of Llama 3.1, please visit [Hugging Face announcement blog post (3.1)](https://huggingface.co/blog/llama31).

> * To get an overview of Llama 3.2, please visit [Hugging Face announcement blog post (3.2)](https://huggingface.co/blog/llama32).

Reviewer 2: I love this intro!

* For more advanced end-to-end use cases with open ML, please visit the [Open Source AI Cookbook](https://huggingface.co/learn/cookbook/index).

This repository is WIP so that you might see considerable changes in the coming days.

> [!NOTE]

> > To use Llama 3.x, you need to accept the license and request permission
> to access the models. Please, visit [any of the Hugging Face repos](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama)
> and submit your request. You only need to do this once, you'll get access to
> all the repos if your request is approved.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> To use Llama 3.x, you need to accept the license and request permission
to access the models. Please visit [the Hugging Face repos](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama)
and submit your request. You only need to do this once per collection; you'll get access to
all the repos in the collection if your request is approved.
```

## Getting Started

The easiest way to quickly run a Llama 🦙 on your machine would be with the
🤗 `transformers` repository. Make sure you have the latest release installed.

```shell
$ pip install -U transformers
```

### Generate text with a base model

Let's generate some text from a given prompt.

> ```python

Reviewer 2: Can we use `pipeline` here? It would simplify the code snippets a lot which is important for the main README (no need for people to think about tokenizers, torch, generation params, etc)

    {"role": "user", "content": "What's Deep Learning?"},
]
model_inputs = tokenizer.apply_chat_template(
    prompt,
    tokenize=True,
    add_generation_prompt=True,
    return_tensors="pt",
).to(device)

with torch.no_grad():
    generation_outputs = llama.generate(
        model_inputs,
        do_sample=False, # Greedy Decoding
        max_new_tokens=50,
    )

generated_text = tokenizer.batch_decode(
    generation_outputs,
    skip_special_tokens=True
)
print(f"Generation: {generated_text[0]}")

# Generation: system
#
# Cutting Knowledge Date: December 2023
# Today Date: 26 Jul 2024
#
# You are a helpful assistant, that responds as a pirate.user
#
# What's Deep Learning?assistant
#
# Yer lookin' fer a treasure trove o' knowledge on Deep Learnin', eh?
# Alright then, listen close and I'll tell ye about it.
#
#Deep Learnin' be a type o' machine learnin' that uses neural networks
```

## Local Inference

Would you like to run inference of the Llama 3.1 models locally?
So do we! The memory requirements depend on the model size and the
precision of the weights. Here's a table showing the approximate
memory needed for different configurations:

> ### Llama 3.1

Reviewer 2: I think you can merge both tables, specially given they don't overlap in size

| Model Size | FP16 | FP8 | INT4(AWQ/GPTQ/bnb) |
| :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: |
| 8B | 16 GB | 8GB | 4GB |
| 70B | 140 GB | 70GB | 35GB |
|405B | 810 GB | 405GB | 204GB |

### Llama 3.2
| Model Size | BF16/FP16 | FP8 | INT4 |
| :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: |
| 1B | 2.5 GB | 1.25GB | 0.75GB |
| 3B | 6.5 GB | 3.2GB | 1.75GB |

> [!NOTE]
> These are estimated values and may vary based on specific
implementation details and optimizations.

Working with the capable Llama 3.1 8B models:

* [Run Llama 3.1 8B in 4-bits with bitsandbytes](./4bit_bnb.ipynb)
* [Run Llama 3.1 8B in 8-bits with bitsandbytes](./8bit_bnb.ipynb)
* [Run Llama 3.1 8B with AWQ & fused ops](./awq.ipynb)

Working on the 🐘 big Llama 3.1 405B model:

* [Run Llama 3.1 405B FP8](./fp8-405B.ipynb)
* [Run Llama 3.1 405B quantized to INT4 with AWQ](./awq_generation.py)
* [Run Llama 3.1 405B quantized to INT4 with GPTQ](./gptq_generation.py)

## Model Fine Tuning:

> It is often not enough to run inference on the model, you would also
> need to fine tune the model on some custom dataset. We have got you
> covered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is often not enough to run inference on the model. 
Many times, you need to fine-tune the model on some 
custom dataset. Here are some scripts showing 
how to fine-tune the models.
```

> Fine tune models on your custom dataset:

Reviewer 2: There is also https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface-llama-recipes/blob/main/sft_vlm.py for vision

* [Fine tune Llama 3.2 Vision on a custom dataset](./Llama-Vision%20FT.ipynb)
* [How to fine-tune Llama 3.1 8B on consumer GPU with PEFT and QLoRA with bitsandbytes](./peft_finetuning.py)
* [Execute a distributed fine tuning job for the Llama 3.1 405B model on a SLURM-managed computing cluster](./qlora_405B.slurm)

## Assisted Decoding Techniques

Do you want to use the smaller Llama 3.2 models to speedup text generation

> of bigger models? Here we talk about assisted decoding (speculative decoding), which gives you ~2x speedups for text generation on Llama 3.1 70B (with greedy decoding).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of bigger models? These notebooks showcase assisted decoding (speculative decoding), which gives you ~2x speedups for text generation on Llama 3.1 70B (with greedy decoding).
```

> * [Run assisted decoding with 🐘 Llama 3.1 70B and 🤏 Llama 3.2 3B](./assisted_decoding_70B_3B.ipynb)

Reviewer 2: There's also https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface-llama-recipes/blob/main/assisted_decoding.py

## Performance Optimization

Let us optimize performace shall we?

* [Accelerate your inference using torch.compile](./torch_compile.py)
* [Accelerate your inference using torch.compile and 4-bit quantization with torchao](./torch_compile_with_torchao.ipynb)
* Execute some Llama-generated Python code
* Use tools with Llama!
* [Quantize KV Cache to lower memory requirements](./quantized_cache.py)
* [How to reuse prompts with dynamic caching](./prompt_reuse.py)

## API inference

Are these models too large for you to run at home? Would you like to experiment with Llama 405B? Try out the following examples!

* [Use the Inference API for PRO users](./inference-api.ipynb)
* Use a dedicated Inference Endpoint

## Llama Guard and Prompt Guard

In addition to the generative models, Meta released two new models: Llama Guard 3 and Prompt Guard. Prompt Guard is a small classifier that detects jailbreaks and prompt injections. Llama Guard 3 is a safeguard model that can classify LLM inputs and generations. Learn how to use them as done in the following notebooks:

* [Detecting jailbreaks and prompt injection with Prompt Guard](./prompt_guard.ipynb)

> * Using Llama Guard for Guardrailing

Reviewer 2: Let's open issues for the points for which we never got to add a notebook

Author: Will do!
